# School of Computing &mdash; Year 4 Project Proposal Form

## SECTION A

|                     |                   |
| ------------------- | ----------------- |
| Project Title:      | xxxxxx            |
| Student 1 Name:     | xxxxxx            |
| Student 1 ID:       | xxxxxx            |
| Student 2 Name:     | Rishabdev Sidhu   |
| Student 2 ID:       | 20309616          |
| Project Supervisor: | Geoffrey Hamilton |

> My title ideas: (TrustVote) || (Votegrity) || (SecureVoteX) || (eVoteSolutions)

## SECTION B

### Introduction

> Our Blockchain Voting System is at the cutting edge of innovation in a world where technology, transparency, and confidence in democratic processes are all fast advancing.
> This ambitious project seeks to fundamentally alter the way elections are held, guaranteeing not only the authenticity of the voting process but also the accessibility and convenience for each and every eligible voter which in turn will increase voter turnout.
> We aim to create a voting system that is safe, open, and impenetrable by utilizing blockchain technology.

### Outline

> Voter Registration: Eligible voters are registered on the blockchain with a unique key pair, with the voter having the private key and the public key being on the blockchain.
>
> Ballot Generation: Ballots are generated by the team running the election, the ballot is encrypted using the public keys of the voters.
>
> Voter Authentication: Voters log in to vote using their private key that is sent to their registered email/ phone number
>
> Encryption of vote: Voter makes their vote and the vote is encrypted using homomorphic encryption.
>
> Voters Submission to the blockchain: Voters unblind the signed ballots, showing a valid signature on an encrypted vote, this vote is then anonymously submitted to the blockchain, meaning votes are always confidential.
>
> Tally of the votes: The system can compute the tally of the votes without decrypting individual votes, this tally is also encrypted. Election admins can decrypt the encrypted tally.
>
> Election Admins: Admins hold the decryption keys for the tally, once the voting is finalised, the tally is decrypted and published.
>
> Key Management: A secure system is needed to manage these keys for the highest possible security.
>
> (Optional Feature) Verification: Voters can verify that their vote is in the tally without revealing their vote by checking the blockchain (Implemented with the use of ZK-SNARKs).

### Background

> Where did the ideas come from?

### Achievements

> The project aims to enhance the security and transparency of elections by creating an immutable ledger of votes.
> This will mitigate the risk of fraud and manipulation, ultimately increasing trust in the electoral system.
> Voting will become more accessible and convenient for all participants by allowing them to vote remotely without any challenges or obstacles.
> By enabling secure remote voting, we aspire to increase voter turnout and engagement.
> Additionally, our project intends to streamline the election administration process, reducing costs and inefficiencies associated with traditional paper-based systems.
> Ultimately, the achievement of these goals will contribute to the strengthening of democratic institutions, ensuring that elections truly represent the votes of the people.

> The target audience will primarily be stakeholders who desire to use a voting system to achieve a fair election by gathering votes from their intended audience
> For example, a school may use the system to elect a class rep by collecting votes from all students within a certain class or elect a new political leader by collecting votes from the residents of where the election shall be held

### Justification

> This project will be useful when beginning an election where the voters can vote from anywhere remotely on their device.
> It ensures data integrity and security as the votes cannot be mutated nor viewed by an individual until the results are released.
> This brings peace of mind to the voters who know their votes count and can do it within seconds without the hassle of going to a ballot machine, it also brings peace of mind to candidates nominated for an election as they will receive a high voter turnout and will not have to worry about the other party doing malicious cyber activities to turn the favours to their side.

### Programming language(s)

> Backend: Node.js
> Frontend: Vue.js
> Database: MySQL

### Libraries / Frameworks / Tools

> Blockchain Platform: Ethereum
> Blind Signatures: RSA
> Gmail API

### Hardware

> No non-standard hardware components required.

### Learning Challenges

> Blockchain is a completely new concept for us so we will have to research many concepts as we develop the system and its requirements
> (Rishab): Node.js and Vue.js are new programming languages for me so I will have to learn them before developing the system

### Breakdown of work

> Frontend
>
> Backend
>
> Database setup
>
> Homomorphic encryption
>
> Blind Signature
>
> Blockchain
>
> Verification
>
> Keys
>
> Account registration
